Okay, so it's now time for a challenge.
From this point forward in the course,
anytime we learn something new,
I'm going to issue a challenge.
I'm going to actually type it on
the screen shortly, and the idea is for
you to actually go a way.
An attempt to solve this challenge,
and actually write some code.
And so,
you pause the video while that happens.
And then you write the code.
And then, you'll come back, and
actually check the results.
So, what I'll do is,
I'll actually show you my interpretation
of the challenge, and the solution.
[INAUDIBLE] To the challenge.
And then, you'll actually look at that,
and compare your challenge to it, and
hopefully, you'll learn a lot more about
what you've actually just learned.
So, let's go, and get started.
And I'm gonna type in our first challenge,
which of course is for the if statement.
Okay, so here is your first
challenge in the course.
So, the idea is to write
a small program to ask for
a name from the keyboard for the user
to type in a name and also an age.
When both values have been
entered from a keyboard
check if a person it the right
age to go on an 18-30 holiday.
And an 18-30 holiday, what that means
is they must be over the age of 18 and
under the age of 31, and
if they are, so if they are 18 or
over and under 31, welcome to the holiday.
Otherwise, print a polite
message refusing them entry.
And that was a typo there.
Should be otherwise print a polite
message refusing them entry.
Alright, so I'll ask you now to pause
the video, and actually go away, and
try and come up with the solution to this.
And when you're ready, start the video
again, and I'll actually show you how
my solution works, and
you can check that against your answer.
So, pause the video now.
Okay.
How did you get on?
Did you figure it out?
Did you have a good
attempt at the challenge.
And hopefully,
you've figured out a solution to it.
So, let's now, go ahead and
actually come up with a solution.
Now, bearing in mind with all challenges,
there's quite often multiple
ways to actually achieve things.
And the thing to keep in mind with this
is that just because you haven't typed
a challenge, or
solution that's not identical to mine
doesn't mean that you got it wrong.
The end result is whether your program
has achieved the goals set up in
the challenge.
If it has achieved those goals, then you
know, that you've got a good solution.
So, keep that in mind.
Let's get started.
So, first step.
Write a small program to ask for
a name and an age.
So we obviously, need to ask for
a name and the age.
So, I can type name equals input.
Please enter, your name.
And then, put age equals
int, input, how old are you?
And we'll put a placement field in there,
and .format will actually use name.
That was optional,
you didn't have to actually print the name
out but that won't be bad if we do that.
Okay, so the next thing we need to do,
is now we've got the name and the age,
it's time to see whether the appropriate
age to go through to this 18-30 holiday,
and that's obviously to be over 18 and
under 31.
I think I said before that it was 18 or
older.
But, I've actually typed it as over 18 and
under 31.
So, it's up to you if you want to
actually put greater than or equal to 18.
Obviously, the correct
solution will be either.
Okay.
So, let's just try it.
So, what I'm going to do, I'm going
to actually assume that it's an 18-30
holiday, so as long as they're within
that range, 18 to 30, they're good to go.
So, one option would be to put
if 18 is less than equal to age,
which is less than 31.
Print.
Welcome to club 18-30 holidays.
You replace with field (0).format name.
Else, print I'm sorry,
our holidays are only for
seriously cool people.
And so,
we've actually fulfilled the criteria.
If they are, we welcome them to the
holiday, if they're in that date range.
Otherwise, we put a polite
message refusing them entry.
We'll run that challenge.
Now, we'll enter our name.
I'll put Tim.
How old are you Tim?
And notice I made a mistake there.
I should've actually put a space there.
Probably better to put a question mark
because it actually is a question.
And then, that space as well.
So, we'll try running that again.
Tim.
How old are you Tim?
21.
Welcome to club 1830 Holidays Tim.
Alright, so that's so far so good.
So, let's actually try another scenario.
Tim.
18.
Welcome to club 1830 Holidays Tim.
Yes, we still fulfilled it.
But now if we type Tim again,
or type Thomas.
Thomas [INAUDIBLE] something different.
17.
I'm sorry our holidays are only for
seriously cool people.
So obviously, this 17 is working,
and if we actually do another
test here we can put Brian 31.
I'm sorry our holidays are only for
seriously cool people.
So, that's working as well.
So, this was one way to actually test,
and obviously, that's just one way, but
we could also have done,
if I comment that out,
we could quite easily also have
put if age is greater than or
equal to 18 and age is less than 31.
We could have done that, and
if we run that it'll actually
give us the same result.
So, if I put 17 in there,
excluded as we should be.
Tim.
18.
Welcome to Club 1830 Holidays Tim.
That's correct.
And likewise try 31, we should be
excluded cuz the range was 18 to 30.
And the last one, Tim, say 25 or
actually put 5 [INAUDIBLE], actually
was going to say I put 5 there, but
I actually typed ahead, and
did actually put 25, so that's correct.
So, there you go,
that's the first challenge, and again so
depending on your answer if you
did it a different way there,
you could have used even the or,
as we talked about in this lesson, or
in the previous parts of this if statement
lessons, the two previous videos.
That would've been correct.
The main thing is that you're able to
actually check that they're actually
within that range.
And if they were in your program,
congratulations.
You did well.
Okay.
That's it for the if statement, so
we've gone through and
learned how to do that.
We've also gone through a challenge.
In the next video, we're gonna
start looking at for-loops which is
a way to actually repeat certain code, or
code blocks a certain amount of times, so
I'll see you in that next video.